does the world really want a solution I
I'm not
seeing any real effort to say wait a
minute why haven't we had a solution
until now and what can be different this
time around here's a couple of
encouraging things first of all you have
a United Palestinian delegation in Cairo
uh you have the the leader recognized by
the world president abas you also have
Hamas and other factions there I think
that's positive going forward if that
can be encouraged second L the Egyptians
seem to have shifted in the course of
this conflict from pursuing a vendetta
against Hamas they have their own
domestic struggle with the Brotherhood
they saw this as an extension of that
domestic problem they seem to have
shifted to a position which says maybe
it's better as a new Egyptian regime
that we prove we can actually be useful
as a mediator but other than that we're
not seeing that much that is encouraging
very important your your your last
segment
some people tend to think ah this whole
problem is rockets that began a month
ago right much bigger issues can you
resolve the Israeli Palestinian conflict
RIT large and can one end this situation
where garans are living in an open air
prison is enough pressure being put on
Israel by the US in particular to come
up with some kind of viable solution to
actually sit down and come up with
something well of course we we're just
off the back of nine months of us
sponsor said peace talks people will
remember that Secretary of State John
Kerry shuttled back and forth intensely
uh during that period that ended late
March early April nothing came out of it
and I think that what you have is the
problem that continues to this day that
the Israelis really don't feel they have
to make this choice there's almost an
impunity that Israel has gotten used to
I would argue it's a luxury that doesn't
really serve the Israelis because they
get dragged in further into Gaza they
themselves don't have a future I don't
think until the Palestinians have
security have freedom have their rights
the Americans don't seem to be doing
anything to change that equation neither
do the Europeans because we just heard
from Mustafa bhushi again here on BBC
World News something that we hear from
Palestinians all the time if there was
not occupation there would be no
resistance this effect they say would be
solved in terms of the aggression coming
from Hamas is that even viable or
possible that the occupation could end
of course the occupation can end and of
course until there is an end to
occupation the human nature is to say
wait a minute if someone's denying me my
basic freedoms I'm going to do something
about it I would rather people did what
Mustafa barouti uh calls for which is
nonviolent resistant sanctions on Israel
rather than Rockets but as long as the
occupation continues of course there'll
be
resistance an equation an incentive
structure has to be created for Israel
whereby it's more costly to continue the
occupation than it is to end the
occupation we know how to do that we've
had examples in the past like South
Africa those aren't being applied to
Israel it's sad that this is what might
be necessary but by now it seems that
that is what will be necessary